All right. Now let's put our k-d tree to use.
Let's say we have this target point and we wish to know
all the nearby points in the tree to this target point.
So how do we do this, and how is the k-d tree really going to speed up this process?
So let's look at it.
So let's say we have our k-d tree and we look at the first point,
that's the root point in our tree.
Let's say it's this one right here,
which is this nice pivot point for
the X dimension and it's splitting up our points nicely between the X.
So once we have this point we have our target,
and we're just going to do this cheap comparison.
We're going to see if it lies within this box or not.
Let's say we have this distance tolerance,
and that's this length of this arrow right here.
So our box is actually going to have two times this distance tolerance.
So we can actually do this cheap calculation here
this X-Y comparison to see if this points even within the box or not,
and it's not in the box.
So we know it's not a nearby point.
Now here's where it gets interesting,
we can actually split left and right in the tree,
and the box comparison is going to help us do that.
So this first point,
this route is going to split the X region into two pieces,
and we know whether we can explore
our target point in it left or right by doing this X-Y comparison.
So here we have our length of our box,
we have this point right here and we can see if
this X point is actually less than or equal to this X division.
We see that it's not greater than this X division,
so we don't even have to worry about checking any points in this right region.
So we don't have to worry about these two points at all.
We do see that's less than this X region.
So we will check this left region here.
So that means that we'll branch off to the left of our tree.
So this is our route. Now we're going to branch off to the left.
Let's say once we branch off to the left,
here's our next node that we arrive at in our tree.
We do the same thing,
we see if it's in that box,
we see right here it's not in that box.
So now we're going to check this Y split.
We're going to have this upper and lower region.
We do the same thing and look at this Y value here and see if it's less than or
greater than this Y value that we get from the split.
We see that it's not less than it,
so we don't have to worry about any points in this region,
and we only have to worry about this region now.
So you can see how this k-d tree is really helping
us narrow down the search space quite well.
So now we are in our tree branch to the right.
Again, check out this upper region,
and let's say this is the next point we arrive at.
Now for the first time, we see that this point is inside the box.
So we can do this kind of cheap X-Y comparison and see that this point is in the box.
The next thing we look at,
is it actually in this circle, this radius?
It is actually, so it's in this circle.
That's the first time we're actually going to do this distance calculation,
and that's just slightly more expensive than
doing that comparison because we have the square root.
But now for the first time we are just doing a distance calculation,
and now we have a nearby point,
which is within that distance tolerance to our target point.
Awesome. So we have one so far.
Let's keep exploring and see if we can find any others.
Now also for the first time,
our boxes are within both this x-splitting region.
So the boxes contained in both this right and this left region here,
and now we are actually going to be exploring both sides.
So let's go ahead and start with the left over here.
So we'd split off to the left and we'd see whether this point is in the box or not,
and it's just slightly outside the box.
So that's not a nearby point.
Then we'd see whether that box is in that upper or lower region.
It's not in the upper region at all.
This point is not greater than this Y value here.
So that means we don't have to worry about any of the points in this region,
we would just focus on the lower region.
But hey, we don't have any points at all anymore.
So we're done on this left side.
Then looking back, we saw there was boxes also in this right region here.
This point was greater than this X region here.
So now we're going to check out the points off to the right,
and that's the single point right here.
We see once again it's slightly outside this box.
So we don't have to worry about it.
Then we're going to split,
and once we do that we'll see that we don't have any points left and we're done.
We went through when we checked all eight points and we just found one point that
was within this distance tolerance to this target point now outside the tree.
So now we've found all the nearby points in the tree that
are in proximity within this distance tolerances,
this target point that we're using as a reference.
Yeah. We see how that k-d tree really helped near our search space.
We only had to do five checks,
this was the first one.
So one, two, three,
four, five, and we only had to do that distance calculation once.
The naive approach of looking at nearby points would be,
we have our target and we'd iterate through every single point in the tree.
So we'd look at the distance of every single point,
doing the distance calculation,
and if it was below some distance tolerance then we would add it.
But the k-d tree really helped speed up our search,
so we didn't have to iterate through every single point. Look at the distance.
That's quite negligible between doing the naive approach in
this k-d tree approach in this example because we only have eight points,
but if we had a million points we'd really be able to reap the benefits.
So here's how the k-d tree can help us find nearby points given a target point.